The following two passages focus on the importance of trees.
Passage 1
In the first passage Janice Turner, writing in The Times newspaper, considers the value of 
trees. 
Read the passage below and attempt the questions which follow.
Watching the tree surgeon from the window, I felt I was witnessing a crime. One I’d authorised, 
like a Mafia hit. The holm oak — a dense, virulent, evergreen ball ― loomed over the garden like 
a storm cloud. It had to be cut back. But as the chainsaw whined and branches tumbled, I 
wondered if I really had the right.
I’m a resolute city-dweller, but trees seem ever more precious these days, a rebuke to built-in 
obsolescence, a steady point in a churning world. My pear and apple trees are remnants from 
when South London orchards ran all the way down to meet the sea. The walnut reaches out a 
mammoth limb from my neighbour’s garden to mine like God’s arm on the ceiling of the Sistine 
Chapel in Rome.
They are our living past, clocking up the years, ring by ring. Trees are calming like cathedrals, 
reassuring us that they will endure even though we will not. No wonder the ancients believed 
they were gods; there are worse things to worship than a tree.
And this week, reading how some protesters had been arrested trying to prevent ancient 
woodland being destroyed to make way for a three-mile link road to Hastings, I thought: yes, I’d 
go to prison for a tree. Indeed, the protesters who are digging tunnels in the mud and standing 
before the diggers are not “eco-warriors” or “hippies”. Among them are young families, retired 
folk and ordinary dog-walkers. “Local grandmothers”, it was reported, came to swing in giant 
hammocks strung between the 400-year-old oaks.
But this is their last stand. They can only slow the developers. By March the trees will be 
felled. Local people have fought for 20 years to save them, but they are on the wrong side of 
what the government is determined to market as progress, however short-term and dubious the 
economic benefits. The Chancellor of the Exchequer gave £56.8 million of government money 
for this very road, which will fill up with extra traffic, as new roads do, and lead in time to a 
spanking new industrial estate, although Hastings town already has plenty of boarded-up 
premises from which to trade.
Development versus the trees. The government tells us that those who want to protect open 
countryside and woodland from being turned into endless Lego-brick estates are not 
conservationists, they are selfish, privileged people who, sitting comfortably in their own 
cheaply bought piles, have no care for struggling young couples who can’t afford a family home. 
Anyway, what’s a bunch of trees?
But people with no respect for trees show a special kind of arrogance: they think they’re bigger 
than history. I’d argue that cutting down an ancient oak is worse than killing most types of 
animal. Certainly the more numerous species such as dogs, cows, monkeys or cats. A chainsaw 
slicing into a 300-year-old trunk is more brutal and grotesque than hunting 100 foxes. Chopping 
down a fine old tree is more like shooting an elephant or harpooning a whale: the aching 
poignancy of an enormous creature whose size and strength nonetheless cannot save it. Except 
even the mightiest mammal can be bred to maturity in a few years. Not so a tree.
Yet it is astonishing, given how much people love them — planting them to mark special 
moments or honour dead loved ones, measuring their lives by their seasonal changes — that 
officialdom loathes trees. Insurance companies fretting about subsidence would rather you took 
them all down just in case. Councils detest them, employing municipal butchers to hack away 
at whole groves. Embarrassed stumps with a couple of twigs are all that remain.